# Environmental sound classification using deep learning

Autonomous robots is a field of artificial intelligence which deals with designing of robots that can perform a task without any intervention from external sources. Autonomous robots will have a huge impact on our lives at home, industries and public places. There is a need for these robots to understand the surrounding environment to exhibit intelligence behaviour. One of the ways robots perceive the surroundings is through sound. The mechanical control technology of robots has grown in considerable rate in recent years. However their ability to perceive the surrounding environment especially through auditory scenes are still in the nascent stage. Acoustic scene classification supplement the image based classification in
many ways such as microphone is omni-directional in nature compared with the limited camera view angle and audio signal require low computation resource and lower bandwidth. A robot fitted with a microphone can listen and interact with humans at any angle by just analyzing the sound signal from the source and it can enhance the application domain of behavioral and assistive autonomous robots. A number of researchers are working on the intelligent sound recognition(ISR) system to provide the ability to understand the real surrounding environment to the robot. The goal of environmental sound classification systems is to analyze human auditory awareness characteristics and embedding such percept ability in autonomous robots.  
